+++
title = 'Initial Post'
date = 2024-03-17T22:12:12+01:00
lastmod = 2024-03-18T16:23:14+01:00
draft = false
url = '/blog/2024/03/initial-post/'
+++

To be perfectly honest with you, I'm a bit unsure about what exactly I'll do
with this blog. I guess I just want to try out what one can do with this format.
And I found some truly amazing blogs in the recent past, so I said to myself:
"Why don't you just give it a try?" So that's what I'll do.

There is also one additional thing that played into my decision to start this
blog, namely the fact that I desperately need some writing practice. I finished
gymnasium (which is a kind of grammar school which one has to complete before
starting at a university here in Switzerland [&rarr;
Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gymnasium_(school))) mid 2022 and
underwent my military service (which is compulsory here in Switzerland) directly
after. I truly didn't enjoy myself during my 500 days of service and while I
definitely learnt a lot during this time I also lost a great deal of academic
and social skills I had acquired throughout my life. One of those skills
I lost is the ability to bring my thoughts and feelings down on a page in a
manner that satisfies me. Before I felt I could sit and jot down the content of
every last corner of my mind in a linguistically pleasing and engaging way, all
in the space of a few minutes, but now I seem to pause before every other
sentence, trying to find the right words and formulations to express what I
think and feel, words which before always seemed to be right in the palm of my
hand. The same is true for conversation, even when talking to my closest
friends. But that is yet another matter.

So, yeah ... I really need to practice writing again. I think it might even aid
me in finding some lost pieces of pre-military-me that I'd like to have back. I
feel like even those few lines above already did some good, even if it took me
longer to write them as I'd care to admit.

I think I'll close with another thing I have given some thought to while
building this site here. It is the question of whether anyone will ever even
read this. But, frankly, I think I don't care too much. I'm doing this more for
myself than for anyone else. But please, dear reader, if you like what you are
reading, do go on. Read my other posts (if there are any by now), and explore
my site and the ones I linked on my [/links](/links-and-blogroll) page. I truly
don't expect the content of this site to be valuable to anyone but me, but if
it is, I'll be glad nonetheless. For if there is one thing I can always stand
behind, it is bringing a little bit of joy to someone.
