+++
title = "500 Days"
date = 2025-02-13T16:19:45+01:00
lastmod = 2025-02-13T16:19:45+01:00
description = "Well, actually, more like 490 or something."
draft = true
+++

_Disclaimer: The events I'm going to write about in a moment had their beginning
quite a while ago and spanned about one year and a half, and I do not have any
other accounts of it other than my own memory, which is the memory of a romatic
and a storyteller, and therefore _far from_ infallible. So I expect that I will
probably embellish some things subconsciously and leave others out selectively
--- an effect which will probably only be amplified by the narrative approach I
intend to take --- but I'll try to avoid that as best I can and stay as close to
the truth as I can manage. Wish me luck._

This is one of those pieces I have always known I'd have to get out onto a
(metaphorical) piece of paper at some point, ever since I started writing this
blog about a year ago. But until now, I have never felt that it was the _right
time_ to start writing it. I've always felt that it was a story for another
time. But I believe I was just scared. Not ready to look at that period of of my
life again.

That ends now. I need to face it. Relive it, in its entirety. To make sense of
it. To put it to _rest_. For good.

And I need to do it now, because, time and time again, I'm catching myself
thinking: "You know, it wasn't that bad, after all." That is a sign, I think,
that I'm starting to lock all of it away into some dark corner of my
subconscious, and I cannot let that happen, not before I'm _really_ at peace
with it. Because if I do, it'll just sit there, unresolved, constantly eating
away at me, lying in wait to pounce suddenly and unexpectedly at some later
point in time. So I think that I need to stare the beast it in its eye. Now.

I am talking about --- you might have guessed it, if you know me personally or
have read some of my earlier blog posts --- my time in the military.

## A Bit of Context

I was born in Switzerland, which is arguably about as good a place for being
born as it gets. It is a neutral country at the heart of Europe (though not in
the EU), with a democratic system of government, a (mostly) functioning
healthcare system, a (mostly) functioning educational system, and _so many_ more
things that make life a piece of cake in comparison to many other places on this
great blue space-rock we all happen to exist on. It even has some absolutely
_gorgeous_ topography on top of all that. And there is one other thing that is
an integral part of what it means to be a Swiss-born male: compulsory military
service. This basically means that every Swiss man has to serve in the military
and complete recruit school (abbreviated to RS) before their 25th birthday.
There are two models, though, long service and the standard service. In the
standard service model, you first complete recruits school, which takes 18
weeks, and then you have to serve a fixed amount of days in so-called repetition
courses (_Wiederholungskurse_ in German, abbreviated to WK). Or, you can go with
the long service model, in which you serve an increased amount of days (300, I
believe), but you can do them all directly after completing your RS. 

There are alternatives to military service, though. If you're deemed "fit for
service", you can also choose to do what is called "civilian service", during
which you're assigned tasks related to the social, healthcare and environment
sectors. Or, if you can reconcile that with your conscience --- which a
surprising amount of people seem to be able to do just fine, and while I don't
share that sentiment, I cannot blame them --- you could also just do or say
something that makes people at the recruitment centre deem you "unfit for
service".

Okay, now that we've got the formalities dealt with, I can start my tale. Now,
granted, "tale" might sound a bit out of place in this context, but I think
that's going to be the best way for me to go about it. I've always liked telling
stories, and imagining myself narrator, instead of protagonist, might help me in
finding some kind of a common thread in all this. To make a little bit more
_sense_ of it, somehow. The only difference is that this particular story isn't
going to be about some unsung hero of yore. Merely about little old me.

So, let's start at the beginning.

## 2022

Back in the spring of 2022 --- I'd just turned 19 --- I was spending my last few
weeks at gymnasium[^1]. Those were the last few weeks I got to spend on the
protected island which is Trogen, a small backwater village in the canton of
Appenzell Ausserrhoden, where my school, the Kantonsschule Trogen, stands in all
its glory. Those weeks were the last few weeks I got to spend with all of those
amazing people which I'd grown to appreciate _so much_ over the years,
classmates, teachers and staff alike.

Those were busy days, though. Everyone was preparing for the final exams, and I
had the honour to be tasked to, together with a colleague of mine, write and
hold the farewell speech at the graduation celebration. But the thing that was
on my mind the most, was a certain _special someone_. There was this girl I'd
fallen _madly_ in love with just about a year before, and I even thought (or
probably rather hallucinated) that she might be interested in me as well. But I
was too shy to ever tell her about it, or, god forbid, ask her out.

I was a dreamer, you see, somehow content in musing about what might be, too
frightened to challenge that dream, for fear it might turn out to be nothing but
mist. It was foolish, of course, but somehow I still feel strangely _warm_ when
thinking about those days ... Anyway, I'm rambling. I excused my inaction to
myself with the sentiment that now was not the right time for a relationship, as
I was going to serve in the military for the next year or so either way. But I
promised to myself, that after completing my service, which I'd chosen to do in
the long service model, as then I would be able to start my studies in the
summer of 2023 without being interrupted by WKs, I'd ask her out. Because, you
know, maybe I'd become a bit more confident during my service. And by then I'd
be done with everything, so it wouldn't be "not the right time" anymore, right?

[^1]: Gymnasium is a kind of grammar school here in Switzerland, which one has
    to complete before being admitted to university. [&rarr;
    Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gymnasium_(school)#Switzerland)

Right?

Idiot.

So, a few weeks after the graduation celebration, after waving my goodbyes to
many people I'd grown close to, knowing that I'd only be able to keep in touch
with a few select really good friends of mine --- I'd accepted that I was not
going to be able to keep in regular contact with about 80 people, not even _I_
was that deluded --- I turned my head towards the grey barbed wire fences of the
military barrack in Frauenfeld, a knot building up in my stomach. I had a severe
case of homesickness, you see, and the prospect of being away from home for even
a week --- in the Swiss military you're allowed to go home most weekends --- was
daunting to me, even more so after still holding in my heart some lingering
sadness about the end of my time in Trogen. But, I told myself, I was going to
get through this. It was only for about a year, after all. And I could still
always keep dreaming on about _her_, you know? That was going to be enough of a
guiding light to get me through without any trouble, right?

At this point I'd like to interject with a small note about motivation. You
might've asked yourself why on earth I'd do my regular military service if I
didn't want to. There are alternatives, after all. But to me it just felt like
something that is part of what it means growing up in Switzerland. It was
something you just _did_. After all, my father had done it, and both his father
and my mother's father before him. And I wasn't going to be in a fighting
function, only a transmission soldier. And it couldn't hurt, right?

Yeah. Right.

So I went. I packed my stuff, got up in the early morning of the day I'd have to
take the train and suppressed every fibre of my soul that had the audacity to
feel scared or homesick.

I arrived, later that day, among many other young men (and even a few women)
with whom I was to share my fate, before the gates of the barrack, was assigned
to a platoon, got to know my immediate superiors, and was introduced to how life
works in the RS.

And it was surprisingly okay. Yes, we were worked to the bone. Yes, every day
ended with me falling into bed as weary as I ever was, my whole body aching from
top to bottom. Yes, we sometimes had to do things we didn't see any sense in.
Yes, at times we were given only about five minutes of time to eat a full meal.
Yes, our superiors didn't always make the best choices. Yes, I had to fight down
homesickness on a daily basis for about two weeks. But it was okay. Our
sergeants and our lieutenant were really good leaders, and good people. Hard
people, and not without mistakes, but fair. They showed each and every one of us
what we were capable of. They taught us everything they knew, and I, still the
scholar, was eager to learn. I learned about self-defense, field medicine, radio
transmission technologies and how to use every bit of equipment we were given
for survival. I was even fortunate enough to be selected for additional courses
and was allowed to learn about cooking in the field and about driving medium
size military trucks. Those "extracurricular" courses were always the best, as
most of the attending recruits were actually interested in what we were taught,
which couldn't be said for most regular in-platoon trainings.

Life as a recruit didn't seem too bad. It was even _liberating_, somehow, being
able to leave all responsibility to our leaders, only having to do things when
commanded to, and being commended when we did those things well.

There was one thing that bugged me, though. Although I was learning many
interesting new things, and getting good at them rather fast, in the end, I was there to become an
instrument for war.
