+++
title = "Semester I"
date = 2025-02-10T23:30:12+01:00
lastmod = 2025-02-10T23:30:12+01:00
description = "A retrospective."
draft = false
+++

Hello there.

It's been quite a while since I've last sat down and written something. In
fact, it's been about as long as I've been studying at university, and not
without reason. I simply haven't found the time to write much during my
studies. But still ... It's high time, the first semester is over now, and I
have some much-needed time for relaxation and contemplation. So I thought as a
first, and hopefully not last, piece of writing during what short break I'll
have until the second semester begins, I'd start with a little look over my
shoulder at the last few months at ETHZ.

Well then, let's hope that all this time writing mathematical proofs hasn't
robbed me of the ability to write not precisely and coldly but colourfully and
with feeling (maybe even a bit poetically sometimes), and take a look, shall
we?

Though exhausting at times, it's been wonderful. Really. Just absolutely
mind-blowing. I've learned about _so many amazing things_. I've been introduced
to the fields of set theory, (linear) algebra, logic, dynamic programming,
graph theory and algorithmics in general. I've constructed binary search trees,
layered graphs, broken insecure RSA systems defined on additive groups, watched
a professor prove the completeness of the resolution calculus (with respect to
unsatisfiability at least), listened to another one explain why the _n_-th
power of the adjacency matrix of a graph contains information about paths of
length _n_ in that graph, been walked through Johnson's _incredibly genius_
algorithm for all-to-all shortest paths by yet another one, and _so much more_.

If all of that doesn't mean anything to you, don't worry; I myself would have
been just as confused a few short months ago. But now, I feel like a vast
_ocean_ of knowledge lies before me, and I have just started to wet my toes in
its waves.

I had a great time, as one can probably tell.

And I do have the answer to some of those questions I've asked myself at the
very beginning, in [An Open Road]({{< ref
"/blog/2024-09-16-0700-an-open-road.md" >}}). Not to all of them, but to some.

Was I prepared enough? Well, yes, that I was. The first few weeks were a
breeze, and I already knew most of the things we were taught. After that, it
got hard _fast_, as was to be expected, but I was able to keep up just fine,
thankfully.

Did I find new friends? Yes, indeed, I did. I made a great many new
acquaintances, and a few of those do actually have the potential of becoming
friends of mine.

Was I able to maintain old friendships? To this one as well, I can answer with
a sincere yes. I'm still in touch regularly with my closest friends from
before, and that is something I cherish _so much_. There are few things better
than that warm, fuzzy feeling you get when you meet an old friend, and you can
see by the smile on their face that they enjoy your company just as much as you
enjoy theirs. It's the little things, you know?

There is, however, one question I don't have an answer to yet. It's the one
about being good enough. You know, after starting gymnasium[^1], which was
the last big step in my academic career (if you can already call it that), it
took maybe a few weeks to get past the first tests and obtain some feedback on
whether my approach to the whole school-thing was still working. And then it
took me maybe another half of a year or so to figure out a strategy that I was
sure would carry me to and through my Matura[^2]. I was fortunate enough that
my grades were as good that I never _really_ had to consider what I'd do if I
failed.

[^1]: Gymnasium is a kind of grammar school here in Switzerland. [&rarr;
    Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gymnasium_(school)#Switzerland)

[^2]: The Matura is the diploma you need to obtain at gymnasium in order to be
    able to start at university. [&rarr;
    Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Matura#Switzerland)

But now, I don't really have that certainty any more. I'm studying at one of
the most renowned universities in my country, and failure has become a very
real possibility. You can't really mess up an exam and be like: "Oh well, I'll
be able to get the grade up with the next one." Everything hinges on your
performance in a handful of exams over the course of a few weeks.

So, I'd say that I'll know that I was good enough when (or if) I'm holding my
master's degree in my (probably trembling) hands. And that won't happen for
quite some time. Hell, this semester's results aren't even out yet, so I can't
even tell you with certainty whether I passed these first exams. I really hope
so, though. I wouldn't want to miss all the other new and interesting things
this course of study still has in store.

But you know what? That doesn't matter for now. Now is the time to relax, the
time to read, the time to write, the time to make some music, the time to play
video games, and the time to do stuff with my friends. It's the time to spend a
week doing things I love doing[^3].

[^3]: Well ... You know ... Things I love doing _other_ that uni-related
    things. ;)

And so I'll be doing _just that_.
